Document how to maintain the fork (#28)
canonical/wazuh-dashboard-operator: CONTRIBUTING.fork.md

# How to maintain the fork

> 

Reviewer: I think it may be good to offer a couple of sentences about the purpose of this document. Why can't we maintain this repository as normal?

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > GitHub wrongly shows that the fork is based on the `main` branch of `opensearch-dashboards-operator`.

Reviewer 2: nit: "wrongly" is a valid word, but "incorrectly" feels a bit more natural
```suggestion
> GitHub incorrectly shows that the fork is based on the `main` branch of `opensearch-dashboards-operator`.
```

> `wazuh-dashboard-operator` is based on the `2/edge` branch.

## Prepare

> - Clone the repository if you don't already have it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/canonical/wazuh-dashboard-operator`
```

Reviewer 2: missed the ".git"
```suggestion
- Clone the repository: `git clone https://github.com/canonical/wazuh-dashboard-operator.git`
```

- Prepare your working branch: `git checkout -b chore/merge_upstram`

> - Ensure that all CI tests pass before changing anything. You can trigger the CI with an empty commit: `git commit --allow-empty -m 'Trigger CI' && git push -u origin chore/merge_upstram`.

Reviewer 2: why are we doing this step? we have "Require status checks to pass before merging" rule enabled for this repository, hence we can expect he CI to run successfully on a branch checked out of main.

Author: I will clarify this. It's a safety check to ensure we don't have any external dependency (operator-workflow, some charm we're using in the tests...) that is breaking our test.
I lost some time in previous merge troubleshooting things that were not related to the fork/merge at all.

> - Fetch upstream branch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fetch the upstream branch:
```

```shell
git remote add upstream https://github.com/canonical/opensearch-dashboards-operator.git
git fetch upstream
```

## Merge

Start the merge with `git merge upstream/2/edge`.

During the merge, you will face three potential conflicts:

> - You may want to keep the local version of a file, then use: `git checkout --ours <the-file>`
> - You may want to keep the upstream version of a file, then use: `git checkout --their <the-file>`
> - The file has to be manually edited to keep changes from both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you want to keep the local version of a file, then use: `git checkout --ours <the-file>`
- If you want to keep the upstream version of a file, then use: `git checkout --their <the-file>`
- If you want to keep changes from both versions, manually edit the file.
```

> Once you have fixed the conflict, `git add` the file and move to the next one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have fixed the conflict, run the following command to add the file to the staging area and move to the next one: `git add <file_name>`
```
